# Introduction

## Background

Relative water content (RWC) is the measurement of crop hydration
relative to saturated (aka turgid, hydrated) conditions, and is a
standard indicator of plant water usage and drought stress [@drought].
RWC is calculated as follows:
$$\text{RWC} = \frac{m_\text{fresh} - m_\text{dry}}{m_\text{turgid} - m_\text{dry}} \times 100\%$$
Drought stress is a major concern for food producers, as it can
significantly impact crop yield and food quality. Without sufficient
hydration, plants are susceptible to overheating and reduced
photosynthetic rate, leading to wilting and eventual crop loss.

## Focus

This study focuses on the metabolic activity of *Raphanus sativus* (aka
radish) crop leaves across differing levels of water usage, using RWC as
an index. Plant leaves are selected because leaf tissue adapts most
quickly to stress and is thus the most sensitive to dehydration.
Furthermore, the leaves are the primary organs responsible for
photosynthetic activity, and are as-such the site of a significant
portion of a plant's metabolic activity.

## Objectives & Hypotheses

The primary objective of this study is to investigate the existence of
relationships between leaf RWC and both of: leaf chlorophyll content;
and, the ratio between leaf temperature and soil temperature - these are
chosen as reliable indicators of plant metabolic activity. It is firstly
hypothesized that RWC will differ strongly between droughted and
well-hydrated plants. It is also predicted that chlorophyll content will
be lower in drought-stressed plants, and will correlate positively with
RWC due to plant health factors. It is further hypothesized that the
leaf-to-soil temperature ratio will be higher in droughted plants due to
decreased transpiration, and will correlate negatively with RWC due to
increased rates of evaporative cooling.

# Methods

## Sampling

A collection of crop plants have been cultivated under greenhouse
conditions, with half of the plants receiving droughted treatment, and
the other half as a control group. Drought treatment pots were watered
one week prior to harvest to ensure that plants did not wilt or start to
desiccate. Leaves from 4 plants (2 drought, 2 hydrated) were harvested
by 15 sets of participants, producing 15 unique samples. Further ambient
and soil measurements were also taken.

## Data Collection

1.  At-pot measurements are recorded, including: Soil moisture,
    electroconductivity, & temperature; light intensity; and relative
    humidity and leaf temperature.

2.  Plants are harvested and each is labelled with the pot number. All
    soil is removed from the root system.

3.  One complete leaf is sampled and the **fresh mass**
    ($m_{\text{fresh}}$) is taken. A photo is taken of the sample with
    its label and a ruler for scale.

4.  Chlorophyll content readings are taken, and leaf samples are
    packaged inside a hydrated paper towel and, after resting for 24
    hours, **turgid mass** ($m_{\text{turgid}}$) is taken.

5.  Roots and shoots are separated and placed into a drying oven for one
    week, after which **dry mass** ($m_{\text{dry}}$) is taken.

6.  Data from all samples are digitized and compiled into a single
    spreadsheet for analysis.

## Analysis

Both chlorophyll content and leaf:soil temperature ratio are plotted
against RWC for each sample group to determine if relationships exist. A
linear regression is performed to determine the strength of each
relationship.

# Discussion

## Relative Water Content

Drought treatment pots were watered one week prior to harvest to ensure
that plants did not wilt or start to desiccate - this may have impacted
the variance of RWC between droughted and hydrated samples: there was
very little difference in mean RWC between the two groups (Droughted
Mean RWC = 89.1%, Hydrated Mean RWC = 84.6%), and the RWC in droughted
plants was in fact on-average higher than in hydrated plants. This
suggests that the drought treatment may not have been severe enough to
significantly impact RWC, and that other factors (such as differences in
sampled leaf position and light exposure) may have had greater
influence.

## Chlorophyll Content Index

Chlorophyll content is a good indicator of photosynthetic activity, and
as such was expected to be higher in well-hydrated plants. The
relationship between RWC and CCI is weak, with R${}^{2}$ values of
0.0819 and 0.1939 for droughted and hydrated samples, respectively. This
suggests that RWC has little impact on chlorophyll content, and that
other factors (such as differences in sampled leaf position and light
exposure) may have had greater influence.

There is, however, a significant difference between the two: droughted
plants have a lower average CCI than hydrated plants (17.86 vs. 20.40),
suggesting that drought stress has a negative impact on photosynthetic
activity. Furthermore, the strength of the relationship between RWC and
CCI is more than double in hydrated samples, suggesting that the
metabolic activity of hydrated plants is more affected by water usage
than that of droughted plants, which may likely be more dependent on
other factors such as heat stress.

## Leaf:Soil Temperature Ratio

The leaf-to-soil temperature ratio was lower on average in droughted
plants than in well-hydrated samples, suggesting that the metabolic
activity of droughted plants is decreased - however, the difference is
negligible (only 3%), and as such could likely be explained by
differences in leaf position or light exposure. Furthermore, the
relationship between RWC and leaf:soil temperature ratio is
significantly stronger in drought-stressed samples than in hydrated ones
(R${}^{2}_{\text{D}} = 0.5815 >$ R${}^{2}_{\text{H}} = 0.0306$),
suggesting that leaf temperature is far more affected by water usage
when under drought stress (more than 50% of variance).

More than one plant per pot may have introduced crowding in the canopy,
causing leaf:soil temperature to be consistently high and weakening the
strength of correlation between RWC and leaf:soil temperature ratio.

## Conclusion

Leaf relative water content might influence chlorophyll content more
under hydrated conditions, but the relationship remains weak overall. By
contrast, differences in chlorophyll content index on-average between
the sample groups are significant - droughted plants display less
metabolic activity, possibly due to heat stress, which is further
indicated by the temperature-related findings. Finally, leaf relative
water content significantly influences leaf-to-soil temperature ratio
under drought conditions, but has little impact when plants are
well-hydrated; in fact, droughted plants on-average are colder than
hydrated plants, suggesting that they are less metabolically active.
